Instructions/Labs/09-create-power-bi-dashboard.md, before:

---
lab:
    course: 'PL-300'
    title: 'Create a Power BI Dashboard'
    module: 'Create Dashboards'
---


# **Create a Power BI Dashboard**

## **Lab story**

In this lab, you'll create the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard in the Power BI service using an existing report.

In this lab you learn how to:

- Pin visuals to a dashboard
- Use Q&A to create dashboard tiles

**This lab should take approximately 30 minutes.**

## **Get started – Sign in**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab by signing in to Power BI.

*Note: If you've already signed in to Power BI, skip to the next task.*

1. To open Microsoft Edge, on the taskbar, select the Microsoft Edge program shortcut.

     ![Picture 12](Linked_image_Files/08-design-report-in-power-bi-desktop-enhanced_image1.png)

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, navigate to **https://app.powerbi.com**.

    *Tip: You can also use the Power BI Service favorite on the Microsoft Edge favorites bar.*

1. Complete the sign-in process with your organizational credentials (or those provided to you). If prompted by Microsoft Edge to stay signed in, select **Yes**.

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, in the Power BI service, in the **Navigation** pane, expand **My Workspace**. Leave the Microsoft Edge browser window open.

     ![Picture 22](Linked_image_Files/07-my-workspace-new.png)

## **Get started – Publish the report**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab by creating a semantic model. *If you've already published the semantic model, please move to the next task.*

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, in the Power BI service, navigate to **My Workspace**.

1. Select **Upload > Browse**.

1. Navigate to **D:\Allfiles\Labs\09-create-power-bi-dashboard\Starter** folder.

1. Select the **Sales Analysis.pbix** file, and then select **Open**.

*If prompted to replace the semantic model, select **Replace it**.*

## **Create a dashboard**

In this task, you'll create the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard. You'll pin a visual from the report, and add a tile based on an image data URI, and use Q&A to create a tile.

1. In the Power BI service, open the **Sales Analysis** report.

1. In the **Overview** page, set the **Year** slicer to **FY2020**.

    ![Picture 4](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image17.png)

1. Set the **Region** slicer to **Select All**.

	*Pinned visuals are set with the filter context at time of pin. If the underlying visual changes, you'll need to update the dashboard tile as well. For time-based filters, it’s a better idea to use a relative date slicer (or, Q&A using a relative time-based question).*

1. To create a dashboard and pin a visual, hover the cursor over the **Sales and Profit Margin by Month** (column/line) visual, and select the pushpin.

    ![Picture 43](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image18.png)

1. In the **Pin to Dashboard** window, in the **Dashboard Name** box, enter **Sales Monitoring**, then select **Pin**.

    ![Picture 3](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image19.png)

1. Open **My Workspace** and open the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard.

1. Notice that the dashboard has a single tile.

    ![Picture 45](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image22.png)

1. To add a tile based on a question, at the top-left of the dashboard, select **Ask a Question About Your Data**.
    
	*You can use the Q&A feature to ask a question, and Power BI will respond will a visual.*

    ![Picture 7](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image23.png)

1. Select any one of the suggested questions beneath the Q&A box and review the response.

1. Remove all text from the Q&A box, and enter the following: **Sales YTD**

1. Notice the response of **(Blank)**.
    
	*You may recall you added the **Sales YTD** measure in the **Create Advanced DAX Calculations in Power BI Desktop** lab. This measure is a Time Intelligence expression and it so requires a filter on the **Date** table to produce a result.*

    ![Picture 14](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image25.png)

1. Extend the question with: **in year FY2020**.

1. Notice the response is now **$33M**.

    ![Picture 13](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image27.png)

1. To pin the response to the dashboard, at the top-right corner, select **Pin Visual**.

    ![Picture 15](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image28.png)

1. When prompted to pin the tile to the dashboard, select **Pin**.

1. To return to the dashboard, at the top-left corner, select **Exit Q&amp;A**.

1. To add the company logo, on the menu bar, select **Edit**, and then select **Add a Tile**.
    
	*Using this technique to add a dashboard tile lets you enhance your dashboard with media, including web content, images, richly formatted text boxes, and video (using YouTube or Vimeo links).*

1. In the **Add a Tile** pane (located at the right), select the **Image** tile, then **Next**.

1. In the **Add Image Tile** pane, in the **URL** box, enter the complete URL found in the **D:\Allfiles\Resources\AdventureWorksLogo_DataURL.txt** file, and then **Apply**.
    
	*You can embed an image by using its URL, or you can use a data URL, which embeds content inline.*

1. To resize the logo tile, drag the bottom-right corner, and resize the tile to become one unit wide, and one unit high.
    
	*Tile sizes are limited to a rectangular shape.*

1. Organize the tiles so that the logo appears at the top-left, with the **Sales YTD** tile beneath it, and the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile at the right.

    ![Picture 52](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image35.png)

## **Edit tile details**

In this task, you'll edit the details of two tiles.

1. Hover the cursor over the **Sales YTD** tile, and then at the top-right of the tile, select the ellipsis, and then select **Edit Details**.

    ![Picture 50](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image36.png)

1. In the **Tile Details** pane (located at the right), in the **Subtitle** box, enter **FY2020**, and then select **Apply**.

1. Notice that the **Sales YTD** tile displays a subtitle.

    ![Picture 21](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image39.png)

1. Edit the tile details for the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile.

1. In the **Tile Details** pane, in the **Functionality** section, check **Display Last Refresh Time**, and then **Apply**.

    ![Picture 22](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image40.png)

1. Notice that the tile describes the last refresh time (which done when loading the data model in Power BI Desktop).

*You’ll refresh the semantic model in the next exercise. Depending on your data and report, you can do an adhoc data refresh anytime or set a schedule. However, scheduled refreshes require gateways that we aren't able to configure for this lab. So from Power BI Desktop, you'll perform a manual data refresh, and then upload the file to your workspace.*

## **Refresh the Semantic model**

In this exercise, you'll first load sales order data for June 2020 into the **AdventureWorksDW2020** database. You'll then open your Power BI Desktop file, perform a data refresh, and then upload the file to your workspace.

## **Update the lab database**

In this task, you'll run a PowerShell script to update data in the **AdventureWorksDW2020** database.

1. In File Explorer, inside the **D:\Allfiles\Setup** folder, right-click the **UpdateDatabase-2-AddSales.ps1** file, and then select **Run with PowerShell**.

    ![Picture 28](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image46.png)

1. If prompted to change the execution policy, press **A**.

1. When prompted to press any key to close, press **Enter** again.

*The **AdventureWorksDW2020** database now includes sales orders made in June 2020.*

## **Refresh the Power BI Desktop file**

In this task you'll open the **Sales Analysis** Power BI Desktop file, perform a data refresh, and then upload the file to your **Sales Analysis** workspace.

1. In Power BI Desktop file, in the **Data** pane, right-click the **Sales** table, and then select **Refresh Data**.

    ![Picture 55](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image47.png)

1. When the refresh completes, save the Power BI Desktop file.

1. To publish the file to your workspace, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Share** group, select **Publish** and then select **Select** to publish.

    ![Picture 59](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image48.png)

1. When prompted to replace the semantic model, select **Replace**.

1. Close Power BI Desktop.

*The semantic model in the Power BI service now has June 2020 sales data.*

### **Review the dashboard**

In this task, you'll review the dashboard to notice updated sales.

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, open Power BI service, and then review the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard in **My Workspace**.

2. In the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile, in line with the subtitle, notice that the data was **Refreshed: NOW**.

3. Notice also that there's now a column for **2020 Jun**.
    
	*If you don’t see the June 2020 data, you might need to press **F5** to reload the web browser.*

    ![Picture 33](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image50.png)

### **Finish up**

In this task, you'll complete the lab.

1. Save the report and close your browser.

Commit message:

Copied old pbix files and resources to appropriate folders.

Instructions/Labs/09-create-power-bi-dashboard.md, after:

---
lab:
    course: 'PL-300'
    title: 'Create a Power BI Dashboard'
    module: 'Create Dashboards'
---


# **Create a Power BI Dashboard**

## **Lab story**

In this lab, you'll create the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard in the Power BI service using an existing report.

In this lab you learn how to:

- Pin visuals to a dashboard
- Use Q&A to create dashboard tiles

**This lab should take approximately 30 minutes.**

## Download necessary files

To complete this exercise, first download the [09-dashboard](link) zip folder. Extract the folder named as **09-dashboard** to the **C:\Downloads** folder. **Leave the folder open for later use.**

## **Get started – Sign in**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab by signing in to Power BI.

*Note: If you've already signed in to Power BI, skip to the next task.*

1. To open Microsoft Edge, on the taskbar, select the Microsoft Edge program shortcut.

     ![Picture 12](Linked_image_Files/08-design-report-in-power-bi-desktop-enhanced_image1.png)

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, navigate to **https://app.powerbi.com**.

    *Tip: You can also use the Power BI Service favorite on the Microsoft Edge favorites bar.*

1. Complete the sign-in process with your organizational credentials (or those provided to you). If prompted by Microsoft Edge to stay signed in, select **Yes**.

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, in the Power BI service, in the **Navigation** pane, expand **My Workspace**. Leave the Microsoft Edge browser window open.

     ![Picture 22](Linked_image_Files/07-my-workspace-new.png)

## **Get started – Publish the report**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab by creating a semantic model. *If you've already published the semantic model, please move to the next task.*

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, in the Power BI service, navigate to **My Workspace**.

1. Select **Upload > Browse**.

1. Navigate to **D:\Allfiles\Labs\09-create-power-bi-dashboard\Starter** folder.

1. Select the **Sales Analysis.pbix** file, and then select **Open**.

*If prompted to replace the semantic model, select **Replace it**.*

## **Create a dashboard**

In this task, you'll create the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard. You'll pin a visual from the report, and add a tile based on an image data URI, and use Q&A to create a tile.

1. In the Power BI service, open the **Sales Analysis** report.

1. In the **Overview** page, set the **Year** slicer to **FY2020**.

    ![Picture 4](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image17.png)

1. Set the **Region** slicer to **Select All**.

	*Pinned visuals are set with the filter context at time of pin. If the underlying visual changes, you'll need to update the dashboard tile as well. For time-based filters, it’s a better idea to use a relative date slicer (or, Q&A using a relative time-based question).*

1. To create a dashboard and pin a visual, hover the cursor over the **Sales and Profit Margin by Month** (column/line) visual, and select the pushpin.

    ![Picture 43](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image18.png)

1. In the **Pin to Dashboard** window, in the **Dashboard Name** box, enter **Sales Monitoring**, then select **Pin**.

    ![Picture 3](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image19.png)

1. Open **My Workspace** and open the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard.

1. Notice that the dashboard has a single tile.

    ![Picture 45](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image22.png)

1. To add a tile based on a question, at the top-left of the dashboard, select **Ask a Question About Your Data**.
    
	*You can use the Q&A feature to ask a question, and Power BI will respond will a visual.*

    ![Picture 7](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image23.png)

1. Select any one of the suggested questions beneath the Q&A box and review the response.

1. Remove all text from the Q&A box, and enter the following: **Sales YTD**

1. Notice the response of **(Blank)**.
    
	*You may recall you added the **Sales YTD** measure in the **Create Advanced DAX Calculations in Power BI Desktop** lab. This measure is a Time Intelligence expression and it so requires a filter on the **Date** table to produce a result.*

    ![Picture 14](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image25.png)

1. Extend the question with: **in year FY2020**.

1. Notice the response is now **$33M**.

    ![Picture 13](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image27.png)

1. To pin the response to the dashboard, at the top-right corner, select **Pin Visual**.

    ![Picture 15](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image28.png)

1. When prompted to pin the tile to the dashboard, select **Pin**.

1. To return to the dashboard, at the top-left corner, select **Exit Q&amp;A**.

1. To add the company logo, on the menu bar, select **Edit**, and then select **Add a Tile**.
    
	*Using this technique to add a dashboard tile lets you enhance your dashboard with media, including web content, images, richly formatted text boxes, and video (using YouTube or Vimeo links).*

1. In the **Add a Tile** pane (located at the right), select the **Image** tile, then **Next**.

1. In the **Add Image Tile** pane, in the **URL** box, enter the complete URL found in the **D:\Allfiles\Resources\AdventureWorksLogo_DataURL.txt** file, and then **Apply**.
    
	*You can embed an image by using its URL, or you can use a data URL, which embeds content inline.*

1. To resize the logo tile, drag the bottom-right corner, and resize the tile to become one unit wide, and one unit high.
    
	*Tile sizes are limited to a rectangular shape.*

1. Organize the tiles so that the logo appears at the top-left, with the **Sales YTD** tile beneath it, and the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile at the right.

    ![Picture 52](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image35.png)

## **Edit tile details**

In this task, you'll edit the details of two tiles.

1. Hover the cursor over the **Sales YTD** tile, and then at the top-right of the tile, select the ellipsis, and then select **Edit Details**.

    ![Picture 50](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image36.png)

1. In the **Tile Details** pane (located at the right), in the **Subtitle** box, enter **FY2020**, and then select **Apply**.

1. Notice that the **Sales YTD** tile displays a subtitle.

    ![Picture 21](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image39.png)

1. Edit the tile details for the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile.

1. In the **Tile Details** pane, in the **Functionality** section, check **Display Last Refresh Time**, and then **Apply**.

    ![Picture 22](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image40.png)

1. Notice that the tile describes the last refresh time (which done when loading the data model in Power BI Desktop).

*You’ll refresh the semantic model in the next exercise. Depending on your data and report, you can do an adhoc data refresh anytime or set a schedule. However, scheduled refreshes require gateways that we aren't able to configure for this lab. So from Power BI Desktop, you'll perform a manual data refresh, and then upload the file to your workspace.*

## **Refresh the Semantic model**

In this exercise, you'll first load sales order data for June 2020 into the **AdventureWorksDW2020** database. You'll then open your Power BI Desktop file, perform a data refresh, and then upload the file to your workspace.

## **Update the lab database**

In this task, you'll run a PowerShell script to update data in the **AdventureWorksDW2020** database.

1. In File Explorer, inside the **D:\Allfiles\Setup** folder, right-click the **UpdateDatabase-2-AddSales.ps1** file, and then select **Run with PowerShell**.

    ![Picture 28](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image46.png)

1. If prompted to change the execution policy, press **A**.

1. When prompted to press any key to close, press **Enter** again.

*The **AdventureWorksDW2020** database now includes sales orders made in June 2020.*

## **Refresh the Power BI Desktop file**

In this task you'll open the **Sales Analysis** Power BI Desktop file, perform a data refresh, and then upload the file to your **Sales Analysis** workspace.

1. In Power BI Desktop file, in the **Data** pane, right-click the **Sales** table, and then select **Refresh Data**.

    ![Picture 55](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image47.png)

1. When the refresh completes, save the Power BI Desktop file.

1. To publish the file to your workspace, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Share** group, select **Publish** and then select **Select** to publish.

    ![Picture 59](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image48.png)

1. When prompted to replace the semantic model, select **Replace**.

1. Close Power BI Desktop.

*The semantic model in the Power BI service now has June 2020 sales data.*

### **Review the dashboard**

In this task, you'll review the dashboard to notice updated sales.

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser window, open Power BI service, and then review the **Sales Monitoring** dashboard in **My Workspace**.

2. In the **Sales, Profit Margin** tile, in line with the subtitle, notice that the data was **Refreshed: NOW**.

3. Notice also that there's now a column for **2020 Jun**.
    
	*If you don’t see the June 2020 data, you might need to press **F5** to reload the web browser.*

    ![Picture 33](Linked_image_Files/09-create-power-bi-dashboard_image50.png)

### **Finish up**

In this task, you'll complete the lab.

1. Save the report and close your browser.
