Instructions/Labs/10-row-level-security.md, before:

---
lab:
    course: 'PL-300'
    title: 'Enforce Row-Level Security'
    module: 'Enforce Row-Level Security'
---


# **Enforce Row-Level Security**

## **Lab story**

In this lab, you'll enforce row-level security to ensure that a salesperson can only analyze sales data for their assigned region(s).

In this lab you learn how to:

- Enforce row-level security
- Choose between dynamic and static methods

**This lab should take approximately 20 minutes.**

## **Get started**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab.

*Important: If you're continuing on from the previous lab (and you completed that lab successfully), don't complete this task; instead, continue from the next task.*

1. Open Power BI Desktop.

    ![Power BI Desktop icon](Linked_image_Files/02-load-data-with-power-query-in-power-bi-desktop_image1.png)

1. To open the starter Power BI Desktop file, select **Open > Browse this device**.

1. In the **Open** window, navigate to the **D:\Allfiles\Labs\10-row-level-security\Starter** folder, and open the **Sales Analysis** file.

   *Note: At this point, Power BI will ask you to sign in if you haven't already. You can either sign in or select **Cancel** and continue the lab.*

1. Close any informational windows that may open.

1. Notice the warning message beneath the ribbon. *This message alerts you to the fact that the queries haven't been applied to load as model tables. You’ll apply the queries later in this lab.*
    
	*To dismiss the warning message, at the right of the warning message, select **X**.*

1. To create a copy of the file, go to **File > Save As** and save to **D:\Allfiles\MySolution** folder.

1. If prompted to apply changes, select **Apply Later**.

## **Enforce row-level security**

In this task, you'll enforce row-level security to ensure a salesperson can only see sales made in their assigned region(s).

1. Switch to Table view.

   ![Picture 5701](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image20.png)

1. In the **Data** pane, select the **Salesperson (Performance)** table.


1. Review the data, noticing that Michael Blythe (EmployeeKey 281) has a UPN value of: **michael-blythe@adventureworks.com**
    
	*You may recall that Michael Blythe is assigned to three sales regions: US Northeast, US Central, and US Southeast.*

1. On the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **Manage Roles**.

    ![Picture 5700](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image21.png)

1. In the **Manage security roles** window, in the **Roles** section, select **New**.

1. In the box, replace the selected text with the name of the role: **Salespeople**, and then press **Enter**.

   ![Picture 5703](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image23.png)

1. To assign a filter, select the **Salesperson (Performance)** table, and then select **Switch to DAX editor** in the **Filter data** section.

   ![Screenshot 2024-04-18 144345](https://github.com/afelix-95/PL-300-Microsoft-Power-BI-Data-Analyst/assets/148110824/1308d47f-2cca-4f88-9237-b02b66b4cf1e)

1. In the DAX editor box, enter the following expression:

   	**DAX**

	```
	[UPN] = USERPRINCIPALNAME()
	```
    
	*USERPRINCIPALNAME() is a Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) function that returns the name of the authenticated user. It means that the **Salesperson (Performance)** table will filter by the User Principal Name (UPN) of the user querying the model.*

   ![Picture 11](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image25.png)

1. Select **Save** and **Close**.

1. To test the security role, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **View As**.

   ![Picture 5708](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image27.png)

1. In the **View as Roles** window, check the **Other User** item, and then in the corresponding box, enter: **michael-blythe@adventureworks.com**

1. Check the **Salespeople** role, and then **OK**.
    
	*This configuration results in using the **Salespeople** role and impersonating the user with your Michael Blythe’s name.*

   ![Picture 5709](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image28.png)

1. Notice the yellow banner above the report page, describing the test security context.

   ![Picture 13](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image30.png)

1. In the table visual, notice that only the salesperson **Michael Blythe** is listed.

   ![Picture 5713](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image31.png)

1. To stop testing, at the right side of the yellow banner, select **Stop Viewing**.

   ![Picture 5712](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image32.png)

1. To delete the **Salespeople** role, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **Manage Roles**.

   ![Picture 16](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image33.png)

1. In the **Manage security roles** window, select the ellipsis (...) on the **Salespeople** role, and select **Delete**. When prompted to confirm the deletion, select **Yes, Delete**.

   ![Screenshot 2024-04-18 145556](https://github.com/afelix-95/PL-300-Microsoft-Power-BI-Data-Analyst/assets/148110824/deeb4eac-b639-433d-a9d4-29c8e127008e)

### **Finish up**

In this task, you'll complete the lab.

1. Select **Save**, then save the Power BI Desktop file to end the lab.

*Note: When the Power BI Desktop file is published to the Power BI service, you’ll need to complete a post-publication task to map security principals to the **Salespeople** role. You won’t do that in this lab.*

Commit message:

Copied old pbix files and resources to appropriate folders.

Instructions/Labs/10-row-level-security.md, after:

---
lab:
    course: 'PL-300'
    title: 'Enforce Row-Level Security'
    module: 'Enforce Row-Level Security'
---


# **Enforce Row-Level Security**

## **Lab story**

In this lab, you'll enforce row-level security to ensure that a salesperson can only analyze sales data for their assigned region(s).

In this lab you learn how to:

- Enforce row-level security
- Choose between dynamic and static methods

**This lab should take approximately 20 minutes.**

## Download necessary files

To complete this exercise, first download the [10-rls](link) zip folder. Extract the folder named as **10-rls** to the **C:\Downloads** folder. **Leave the folder open for later use.**

## **Get started**

In this task, you'll set up the environment for the lab.

*Important: If you're continuing on from the previous lab (and you completed that lab successfully), don't complete this task; instead, continue from the next task.*

1. Open Power BI Desktop.

    ![Power BI Desktop icon](Linked_image_Files/02-load-data-with-power-query-in-power-bi-desktop_image1.png)

1. To open the starter Power BI Desktop file, select **Open > Browse this device**.

1. In the **Open** window, navigate to the **D:\Allfiles\Labs\10-row-level-security\Starter** folder, and open the **Sales Analysis** file.

   *Note: At this point, Power BI will ask you to sign in if you haven't already. You can either sign in or select **Cancel** and continue the lab.*

1. Close any informational windows that may open.

1. Notice the warning message beneath the ribbon. *This message alerts you to the fact that the queries haven't been applied to load as model tables. You’ll apply the queries later in this lab.*
    
	*To dismiss the warning message, at the right of the warning message, select **X**.*

1. To create a copy of the file, go to **File > Save As** and save to **D:\Allfiles\MySolution** folder.

1. If prompted to apply changes, select **Apply Later**.

## **Enforce row-level security**

In this task, you'll enforce row-level security to ensure a salesperson can only see sales made in their assigned region(s).

1. Switch to Table view.

   ![Picture 5701](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image20.png)

1. In the **Data** pane, select the **Salesperson (Performance)** table.


1. Review the data, noticing that Michael Blythe (EmployeeKey 281) has a UPN value of: **michael-blythe@adventureworks.com**
    
	*You may recall that Michael Blythe is assigned to three sales regions: US Northeast, US Central, and US Southeast.*

1. On the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **Manage Roles**.

    ![Picture 5700](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image21.png)

1. In the **Manage security roles** window, in the **Roles** section, select **New**.

1. In the box, replace the selected text with the name of the role: **Salespeople**, and then press **Enter**.

   ![Picture 5703](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image23.png)

1. To assign a filter, select the **Salesperson (Performance)** table, and then select **Switch to DAX editor** in the **Filter data** section.

   ![Screenshot 2024-04-18 144345](https://github.com/afelix-95/PL-300-Microsoft-Power-BI-Data-Analyst/assets/148110824/1308d47f-2cca-4f88-9237-b02b66b4cf1e)

1. In the DAX editor box, enter the following expression:

   	**DAX**

	```
	[UPN] = USERPRINCIPALNAME()
	```
    
	*USERPRINCIPALNAME() is a Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) function that returns the name of the authenticated user. It means that the **Salesperson (Performance)** table will filter by the User Principal Name (UPN) of the user querying the model.*

   ![Picture 11](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image25.png)

1. Select **Save** and **Close**.

1. To test the security role, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **View As**.

   ![Picture 5708](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image27.png)

1. In the **View as Roles** window, check the **Other User** item, and then in the corresponding box, enter: **michael-blythe@adventureworks.com**

1. Check the **Salespeople** role, and then **OK**.
    
	*This configuration results in using the **Salespeople** role and impersonating the user with your Michael Blythe’s name.*

   ![Picture 5709](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image28.png)

1. Notice the yellow banner above the report page, describing the test security context.

   ![Picture 13](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image30.png)

1. In the table visual, notice that only the salesperson **Michael Blythe** is listed.

   ![Picture 5713](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image31.png)

1. To stop testing, at the right side of the yellow banner, select **Stop Viewing**.

   ![Picture 5712](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image32.png)

1. To delete the **Salespeople** role, on the **Home** ribbon tab, from inside the **Security** group, select **Manage Roles**.

   ![Picture 16](Linked_image_Files/04-configure-data-model-in-power-bi-desktop-advanced_image33.png)

1. In the **Manage security roles** window, select the ellipsis (...) on the **Salespeople** role, and select **Delete**. When prompted to confirm the deletion, select **Yes, Delete**.

   ![Screenshot 2024-04-18 145556](https://github.com/afelix-95/PL-300-Microsoft-Power-BI-Data-Analyst/assets/148110824/deeb4eac-b639-433d-a9d4-29c8e127008e)

### **Finish up**

In this task, you'll complete the lab.

1. Select **Save**, then save the Power BI Desktop file to end the lab.

*Note: When the Power BI Desktop file is published to the Power BI service, you’ll need to complete a post-publication task to map security principals to the **Salespeople** role. You won’t do that in this lab.*
